Write testing docs (#1209)
strawberry-graphql/strawberry: docs/operations/testing.md

# Testing

The GraphiQL playground integrated with Strawberry available at

> [http://localhost:8000/graphql](http://localhost:8000/graphql) can be a good place to

Reviewer: This is only when using Strawberry in a specific way (i.e. with the `strawberry server` command). Maybe we should make that clear

Author: I add a parenthesis `(if you run the schema
with `strawberry server`)` ... didn't come to mind a better way to write it... 😪

Reviewer: I think it's good enough for now :+1:

start testing your queries and mutations. However, at some point, while you are
developing your application (or even before if you are practising TDD), you may want to

> write down also some automated tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
create some automated tests.
```

> We can use the Strawberry's `schema` we defined in the
> [Getting started tutorial](docs/index.md) to run our first test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use the Strawberry `schema` object we defined in the
[Getting Started tutorial](docs/index.md#step-5-create-our-schema-and-run-it) to run our first test:
```

```python
def test_query():

>     query = """query($title: String!){
>             books(title: $title){
>                 title
>                 author
>             }
>         }
>     """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    query = """
    	query($title: String!) {
            books(title: $title) {
                title
                author
            }
        }
    """
```

Nit: formatting

    result = schema.execute_sync(
        query,
        variable_values={"title": "The Great Gatsby"},
    )

    assert result.errors is None
    assert result.data["books"] == [
        {
            "title": "The Great Gatsby",
            "author": "F. Scott Fitzgerald",
        }
    ]
```

This `test_query` example:

> 1. defines the query we want to test that takes one variable `title` as input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. defines the query we will test against; it accepts one argument, `title`, as input
```

> 2. executes the query and assign the result to a `result` variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. executes the query and assigns the result to a `result` variable
```

> 3. asserts that the result is what we are expecting: nothing in `errors` and our desired
>    book in the `data`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. asserts that the result is what we are expecting: nothing in `errors` and our desired
   book in `data`
```

As you may have noticed, we explicitly defined the query variable `title`, and we passed
it separately with the `variable_values` argument, but we could have directly hardcoded

> the `title` in the query string instead. We did it on purpose because usually, in most
> applications, the query's arguments will be dynamic, and, as we want to test our
> application as close to production as possible, it wouldn't make much sense to hardcode
> the variables in the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `title` in the query string instead. We did this on purpose because usually the query's arguments will be dynamic and, as we want to test our
application as close to production as possible, it wouldn't make much sense to hardcode
the variables in the query.
```

## Testing Async

Since Strawberry supports async, tests can also be written to be async:

```python
@pytest.mark.asyncio
async def test_query_async():
    ...

    resp = await schema.execute(query, variable_values={"title": "The Great Gatsby"})

    ...
```

## Testing Mutations

> As well we can write a test for our [`addBook` Mutation](docs/general/mutations.md) example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also write a test for our [`addBook` Mutation](docs/general/mutations.md) example:
```

```python
@pytest.mark.asyncio
async def test_mutaton():
    mutation = """
        mutation($title: String!, $author: String!) {
            addBook(title: $title, author: $author) {
                title
            }
        }
    """

    resp = await schema.execute(
        mutation,
        variable_values={
            "title": "The Little Prince",
            "author": "Antoine de Saint-Exupéry",
        },
    )

    assert resp.errors is None
    assert resp.data["addBook"] == {
        "title": "The Little Prince",
    }
```

## Testing Subscriptions

> And finnally a test for our [`count` Subscription](docs/general/subscriptions.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally, a test for our [`count` Subscription](docs/general/subscriptions.md):
```

```python
@pytest.mark.asyncio
async def test_subscription():

>     query = """subscription {
>         count(target: 3)
>     }
>     """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    query = """
    	subscription {
        	count(target: 3)
    	}
    """
```

# Testing

The GraphiQL playground integrated with Strawberry available at
[http://localhost:8000/graphql](http://localhost:8000/graphql) (if you run the schema
with `strawberry server`) can be a good place to start testing your queries and
mutations. However, at some point, while you are developing your application (or even
before if you are practising TDD), you may want to create some automated tests.

We can use the Strawberry `schema` object we defined in the
[Getting Started tutorial](docs/index.md#step-5-create-our-schema-and-run-it) to run our
first test:

```python
def test_query():
    query = """

>     	query($title: String!) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        query TestQuery($title: String!) {
```

Sorry just realised that you need to name the query to get this to work

    ]
```

This `test_query` example:

1. defines the query we will test against; it accepts one argument, `title`, as input
2. executes the query and assigns the result to a `result` variable
3. asserts that the result is what we are expecting: nothing in `errors` and our desired
   book in `data`

As you may have noticed, we explicitly defined the query variable `title`, and we passed
it separately with the `variable_values` argument, but we could have directly hardcoded
the `title` in the query string instead. We did this on purpose because usually the
query's arguments will be dynamic and, as we want to test our application as close to
production as possible, it wouldn't make much sense to hardcode the variables in the
query.

## Testing Async

Since Strawberry supports async, tests can also be written to be async:

```python
@pytest.mark.asyncio
async def test_query_async():
    ...

    resp = await schema.execute(query, variable_values={"title": "The Great Gatsby"})

    ...
```

## Testing Mutations

We can also write a test for our [`addBook` Mutation](docs/general/mutations.md)
example:

```python
@pytest.mark.asyncio
async def test_mutaton():
    mutation = """

>         mutation($title: String!, $author: String!) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        mutation TestMutation($title: String!, $author: String!) {
```
